One common interview question that you might get is something along the lines of log all pairs of horæ.
Now what does that actually mean.
Well if we had an array let's just say boxes and this array is just contains boxes numbered 1 through
5.
Now this array if I want to log all pairs it means that I want to log 1 2 then 1 3 1 4 1 5 then 2 1
then 2 2 2 3 2 4 2 5.
So on and so forth how would we go about doing that.
And if you want you can pause the video and try to attempt this problem yourself.
Now in this case what we want to do is well we create a function and will say log all pairs of array
that receives an array.
Let's just say array.
So we're descriptive here and in here we will do a for loop.
So for LET.
Hi equals zero.
And we've done this before so if I is less then the product length and will increment by
now.
And here we want to loop so now in the first iteration of the for loop will grab one.
But then we want to loop through the boxes again and log 1 1 1 2 1 3 1 4 1 5.
So we have another for loop and this time will say that J equals zero if we want to loop from the beginning.
Or I could even say 1 if we want to start off with 1 2 because we're starting off at index of 1 right
here.
For now we can just leave it at 0 and we'll say that as long as J.
Is less than redcoat length.
And we'll increment JJ.
And now finally in here I can just say cancel the log
by and J.
Let's run this function and see what happens.
So I have to actually call this function so let's do that log all pairs of array and I'll give it the
boxes array.
Oh and we want to make sure here that we're logging out the actual items and not the index of the array.
So we'll just say re high here and the array J here and just so you don't get confused with the numbers.
Maybe world changes into letters so that it's more obvious what we're doing.
See Dee.
Nasty and we'll say e.
So if I click around here we see that we're logging all pairs a a b a c d.
Keeps going keeps going until e.
You can see the log over here.
What is the big show of this.
And this is something that you're going to see a lot of in interviews and a good rule of thumb is if
you see nested loops that means instead of having two four loops one after another where we use addition
when you see loops that are nested we use multiplication.
So this becomes old of end times.
Oh of.
And which when we multiply them becomes 0 of and square 0 to the end to the power of two.
And that's a good rule of thumb.
And if we go back to our graph this function that we just created and I'm using the S-5 syntax here
instead of the four loops we did this over and squared is what we call quadratic time.
That means every time the number of elements increase.
So let's say we have two elements.
We have four operations that we do if we have three elements.
This actually increases quadratically.
That means instead of four operations we now have 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 because we have three elements to
the power of two.
And you see here how the line is now meant and it increases well quite fast.
If we go back to our big O notation or big-O graph we see that o n squared.
While it's horrible as in it's pretty slow as the number of elements increases the number of operations
increases significantly.
And a lot of interview questions are questions that ask you to solve a problem initially is all vente
squared and make it faster by perhaps making it into something that is a bit lower here that is is bad.
Fair good excellent but definitely not horrible.
If we go back to our rule number three that we were discussing different terms for inputs.
Well going back to that example we had in the previous video remember this well we said oh of a plus
b because we had two different race or inputs.
Now if these loops were actually nested and there now one after another the big show would have been
all of a times b.
And that is rule number three making sure to know that we have different arrays that means different
notation for each array because we don't know the lens and an easy rule of thumb is any step that happens
in the same indentation.
So one after another you add and anything that happens with indentation that is nested You multiply.
So again different inputs should have different variables.
Let's move on to the last rule in the next video.